reStructuredText Demonstration
==============================

Examples of Syntax Constructs
-----------------------------

Author
    David Goodger

Address
    123 Example Street Example, EX Canada A1B 2C3

Contact
    docutils-develop at lists dot sourceforge dot net
Authors
    Me; Myself; I

organization
    humankind

date
    $Date: 2012-01-03 19:23:53 +0000 (Tue, 03 Jan 2012) $

status
    This is a "work in progress"

revision
    $Revision: 7302 $

version
    1

copyright
    This document has been placed in the public domain. You may do with
    it as you wish. You may copy, modify, redistribute, reattribute,
    sell, buy, rent, lease, destroy, or improve it, quote it at length,
    excerpt, incorporate, collate, fold, staple, or mutilate it, or do
    anything else to it that your or anyone else's heart desires.

field name
    This is a generic bibliographic field.

field name 2
    Generic bibliographic fields may contain multiple body elements.

    Like this.

Dedication

    For Docutils users & co-developers.

abstract

    This document is a demonstration of the reStructuredText markup
    language, containing examples of all basic reStructuredText
    constructs and many advanced constructs.

Structural Elements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Section Title
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

That's it, the text just above this line.

Transitions
^^^^^^^^^^^

Here's a transition:

--------------

It divides the section.

Body Elements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Paragraphs
^^^^^^^^^^

A paragraph.

Inline Markup
'''''''''''''

Paragraphs contain text and may contain inline markup: *emphasis*,
**strong emphasis**, ``inline literals``, standalone hyperlinks
(http://www.python.org), external hyperlinks
(`Python <http://www.python.org/>`__), internal cross-references
(example\_), external hyperlinks with embedded URIs (`Python web
site <http://www.python.org>`__), footnote references (manually numbered
`:sup:`1` <#fn1>`__, anonymous auto-numbered `:sup:`2` <#fn2>`__,
labeled auto-numbered `:sup:`3` <#fn3>`__, or symbolic
`:sup:`4` <#fn4>`__), citation references ([CIT2002]\_), substitution
references (|EXAMPLE|), and \_inline hyperlink targets (see Targets\_
below for a reference back to here). Character-level inline markup is
also possible (although exceedingly ugly!) in
*re*\ ``Structured``\ *Text*. Problems are indicated by \|problematic\|
text (generated by processing errors; this one is intentional).

The default role for interpreted text is Title Reference. Here are some
explicit interpreted text roles: a PEP reference (`PEP
287 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0287/>`__); an RFC reference
(`RFC 2822 <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc2822.html>`__); a
:sub:`subscript`; a :sup:`superscript`; and explicit roles for
*standard* **inline** ``markup``.

Let's test wrapping and whitespace significance in inline literals:
``This is an example of --inline-literal --text, --including some-- strangely--hyphenated-words.  Adjust-the-width-of-your-browser-window to see how the text is wrapped.  -- ---- --------  Now note    the spacing    between the    words of    this sentence    (words should    be grouped    in pairs).``

If the ``--pep-references`` option was supplied, there should be a live
link to PEP 258 here.

Bullet Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  A bullet list

   -  Nested bullet list.
   -  Nested item 2.

-  Item 2.

   Paragraph 2 of item 2.

   -  Nested bullet list.
   -  Nested item 2.

      -  Third level.
      -  Item 2.

   -  Nested item 3.

Enumerated Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Arabic numerals.

   #. lower alpha)

      #. (lower roman)

         #. upper alpha.

            #. upper roman)

#. Lists that don't start at 1:

   3. Three
   4. Four

   3. C
   4. D

   3. iii
   4. iv

#. List items may also be auto-enumerated.

Definition Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Term
    Definition

Term : classifier
    Definition paragraph 1.

    Definition paragraph 2.

Term
    Definition

Field Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^

what
    Field lists map field names to field bodies, like database records.
    They are often part of an extension syntax. They are an unambiguous
    variant of RFC 2822 fields.

how arg1 arg2

    The field marker is a colon, the field name, and a colon.

    The field body may contain one or more body elements, indented
    relative to the field marker.

Option Lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^

For listing command-line options:

-a command-line option "a" -b file options can have arguments and long
descriptions --long options can be long also --input=file long options
can also have arguments

--very-long-option
    The description can also start on the next line.

    The description may contain multiple body elements, regardless of
    where it starts.

-x, -y, -z Multiple options are an "option group". -v, --verbose
Commonly-seen: short & long options. -1 file, --one=file, --two file
Multiple options with arguments. /V DOS/VMS-style options too

There must be at least two spaces between the option and the
description.

Literal Blocks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Literal blocks are indicated with a double-colon ("::") at the end of
the preceding paragraph (over there ``-->``). They can be indented:

::

    if literal_block:
        text = 'is left as-is'
        spaces_and_linebreaks = 'are preserved'
        markup_processing = None

Or they can be quoted without indentation:

::

    >> Great idea!
    >
    > Why didn't I think of that?

Line Blocks
^^^^^^^^^^^

| This is a line block. It ends with a blank line.
|     Each new line begins with a vertical bar ("\|").
|     Line breaks and initial indents are preserved.
| Continuation lines are wrapped portions of long lines; they begin with
  a space in place of the vertical bar.
|     The left edge of a continuation line need not be aligned with the
  left edge of the text above it.

This is a second line block.

Blank lines are permitted internally, but they must begin with a "\|".

Take it away, Eric the Orchestra Leader!

    A one, two, a one two three four

    | Half a bee, philosophically,
    |     must, *ipso facto*, half not be.
    | But half the bee has got to be,
    |     \*vis a vis\* its entity. D'you see?

    | But can a bee be said to be
    |     or not to be an entire bee,
    |         when half the bee is not a bee,
    |             due to some ancient injury?

    Singing...

Block Quotes
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Block quotes consist of indented body elements:

    My theory by A. Elk. Brackets Miss, brackets. This theory goes as
    follows and begins now. All brontosauruses are thin at one end, much
    much thicker in the middle and then thin again at the far end. That
    is my theory, it is mine, and belongs to me and I own it, and what
    it is too.

    -- Anne Elk (Miss)

Doctest Blocks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

>>> print 'Python-specific usage examples; begun with ">>>"'
Python-specific usage examples; begun with ">>>" >>> print '(cut and
pasted from interactive Python sessions)' (cut and pasted from
interactive Python sessions)

Tables
^^^^^^

Here's a grid table followed by a simple table:
